# Phase 2

## Accepting the papers

In the second phase, PC members are required to bid the proposals. Each PC member has to do a brief analyze of abstracts or papers in order say if they are pleased to review some papers, or if they are could evaluate some papers, or if they refuse to evaluate other papers. Once the bidding process closed (there is a deadline for bidding), the conference chair or co-chairs assign to each reviewer the papers required to be evaluated. By default any reviewer do not receive for evaluation a paper refused in the bidding phase. At least two different reviewers have to evaluate each paper. Usually there are three reviewers(evaluators) for each paper but depending on the conference level there can be also 4 reviewers. The result of each reviewer is one of the followings qualifiers: strong accept, accept, weak accept, borderline paper, weak reject, reject and strong reject. The papers whose evaluation do not contains any level of reject are accepted by default. Also the papers do not containing any accept will be rejected. In case of papers having contradictory evaluations the chair/co-chairs request reviewers to discuss in order to get closer evaluations. If this will not be possible, is up to the chair to decide if another new evaluation from a different reviewer will be required or if the paper will be rejected or accepted. The evaluation qualifier is justified by means of a set of recommendations that each reviewer attach to evaluated proposals. Once a reviewer upload the results of its evaluation, she/he will see the other evaluations of the same paper delivered by other reviewers. After deciding about the acceptance or not for all submissions, the authors are announced by email about their results. Only papers accepted and presented on the conference will be published. After receiving the acceptance decision, authors are invited to improve their accepted papers taking into account reviewers recommendations. PC members excepting the chair/co-chairs can submit proposals by logging as authors. In this case, they have not the right to see neither which are the reviewers of their paper nor the comments between reviewers.

## Steps